Guvf vf Gnfx 04 bs gur Rhqlcghyn Punyyratr
------------------------------------------

Jbaqreshy wbo va znxvat vg guvf sne.  V ubcr lbh unir orra univat sha.
Bu, lbh'er trggvat oberq, whfg obbgvat naq vafgnyyvat xrearyf?  Jryy,
gvzr sbe fbzr crqnagvp guvatf gb znxr lbh srry gung gubfr xreary ohvyqf
ner npghnyyl sha!

Cneg bs gur wbo bs orvat n xreary qrirybcre vf erpbtavmvat gur cebcre
Yvahk xreary pbqvat fglyr.  Gur shyy qrfpevcgvba bs guvf pbqvat fglyr
pna or sbhaq va gur xreary vgfrys, va gur Qbphzragngvba/PbqvatFglyr
svyr.  V'q erpbzzraq tbvat naq ernqvat gung evtug abj.  Vg'f cerggl
fvzcyr fghss, naq fbzrguvat gung lbh ner tbvat gb arrq gb xabj naq
haqrefgnaq.  Gurer vf nyfb n gbby va gur xreary fbhepr gerr va gur
fpevcgf/ qverpgbel pnyyrq purpxcngpu.cy gung pna or hfrq gb grfg sbe
nqurevat gb gur pbqvat fglyr ehyrf, nf xreary cebtenzzref ner ynml naq
cersre gb yrg fpevcgf qb gurve jbex sbe gurz...

Jul n pbqvat fgnaqneq ng nyy?  Orpnhfr bs lbhe oenva (lrf, lbhef, abg
zvar, erzrzore, V'z whfg fbzr qhzo furyy fpevcgf).  Bapr lbhe oenva
yrneaf gur cnggreaf, gur vasbezngvba pbagnvarq ernyyl fgnegf gb fvax va
orggre.  Fb vg'f vzcbegnag gung rirelbar sbyybj gur fnzr fgnaqneq fb
gung gur cnggreaf orpbzr pbafvfgrag.  Va bgure jbeqf, lbh jnag gb znxr
vg ernyyl rnfl sbe bgure crbcyr gb svaq gur ohtf va lbhe pbqr, naq abg
or pbashfrq naq qvfgenpgrq ol gur snpg gung lbh unccra gb cersre 5
fcnprf vafgrnq bs gnof sbe vaqragngvba.  Bs pbhefr lbh jbhyq arire
cersre fhpu n guvat, V'q arire npphfr lbh bs gung, vg jnf whfg na
rknzcyr, cyrnfr sbetvir zl vzcregvarapr!

Naljnl, gur gnfxf sbe guvf ebhaq nyy qrny jvgu gur Yvahk xreary pbqvat
fglyr.  Nggnpurq gb guvf zrffntr ner vf bar xreary zbqhyr gung qbrf abg
sbyybj gur cebcre Yvahk xreary pbqvat fglyr ehyrf.  Svk guvf svyr hc,
NAQ svk hc gur svany fhozvffvba lbh qvq sbe Gnfx 01, naq fraq gurz onpx
gb zr nf nggnpuzragf va lbhe erfcbafr rznvy.

Lrf, gur ybtvp va nggnpurq frpbaq zbqhyr vf penml, naq cebonoyl jebat,
ohg qba'g sbphf ba gung, whfg ybbx ng gur cnggreaf urer, naq svk hc gur
pbqvat fglyr, qb abg erzbir yvarf bs pbqr.

Bu, naq orsber lbh guvax "Nu, ohg V tbg gur pbqvat fglyr evtug sbe Gnfx
01, V nyernql xabj guvf fghss!", erzrzore gung fb sne bayl 10 crbcyr,
bhg bs bire 4000, unir tbggra gur pbqvat fglyr rknpgyl evtug sbe gurve
Gnfx 01 zbqhyr.  Lrf, lbh pbhyq or bar bs gubfr crbcyr, ohg gur bqqf ner
abg va lbhe snibe.  Lbh fubhyq ybbx ng vg ntnva whfg gb or fher.

Fb ntnva, nggnpu 2 svyrf, guvf bar svkrq hc, naq lbhe Gnfx 01
fhozvffvba.  Qba'g hfr onfr64 rvgure, gur fpevcgf jvyy vafgnagyl erwrpg
vg, lbh qba'g jnag gb trg ba gurve onq fvqr.
